CONFIGURATION.md, before:

# Configuration

The DSB Client Gateway is configured via environment variables.

## Server

The following variables control the setup of the gateway server.

### `PORT` [optional]

Define the port the gateway will run on.

**Default**: 3000

### `WEBSOCKET` [optional]

Select WebSocket mode depending on architecture (i.e. preference for inbound
or outbound connections).

By default, the gateway will run a WebSocket server on /events. However, it
can also operate as a client with additional configuration (see below).
Alternatively, this functionality can be turned off.

Note that under the hood, the WebSocket implementation uses the same message
consumer as the GET /api/v1/message endpoint. Turning WebSocket support on is
therefore likely to render the REST endpoint useless because outstanding
messages will have already been pulled by the WebSocket implementation. If you
intend to use the REST endpoint to pull new messages from the queue, please
leave this value set to `NONE`.

*Options: `SERVER`, `CLIENT`, `NONE`*

**Default**: `NONE`

### `WEBSOCKET_URL` [optional]

Sets the URL of the WebSocket server the client should try to connect to.

**Required if `WEBSOCKET` is set to `CLIENT`**

### `WEBSOCKET_PROTOCOL` [optional]

Sets the protocol the WebSocket client should request access to. Acceptable
protocols are defined by the WebSocket server, however, this can also be left
undefined.

Note that if `WEBSOCKET` is set to `SERVER` this variable is ignored. The
server will only accept connection requests on the `dsb-messages` protocol.

### `WEBSOCKET_RECONNECT` [optional]

Define whether the WebSocket client should reconnect on connection error/close.

**Default**: `true`

### `WEBSOCKET_RECONNECT_TIMEOUT` [optional]

Define the interval between receiving a connection error/close and attempting
to reconnect, in milliseconds.

**Default**: `10000` (10s)

### `WEBSOCKET_RECONNECT_MAX_RETRIES` [optional]

Define how many times the WebSocket client should attempt reconnection with the
server upon receving connection error/close.

**Default**: `10`

## Events

The following variables control how the DSB Client Gateway reacts to events,
for example, incoming messages on a channel. This is used in conjunction with
the WebSocket configuration to define how data is pushed to connections.

### `EVENTS_EMIT_MODE` [optional]

Defines the format for messages pushed over a real-time communication channel.

If bulk mode is chosen, messages will be sent as an array. At every 1 second
interval, the gateway will emit an array of the latest messages received.

If single mode is chosen, messages will be sent individually.

*Options*: `BULK`, `SINGLE`

**Default**: `BULK`

### `EVENTS_MAX_PER_SECOND` [optional]

Defines how many events should be pushed per second, regardless of mode chosen
(see above).

**Default**: `100`

## DSB Message Broker

The following variables control the connection with the DSB Message Broker,
which is a required dependency of the gateway.

### `DSB_BASE_URL` [optional]

The URL of the DSB Message Broker you want to connect to. Trailing `/` allowed.

Examples:
- `http://localhost:3000/`
- `http://1.1.1.1:5000`
- `https://broker.example.com/`

**Default**: `http://dsb-dev.energyweb.org`

### `DSB_CONTROLLABLE` [optional]

This allows the DSB Message Broker to be controlled by the DSB Client Gateway.
In this situation, the identities of both components are shared. This means
that a single private key is used for each component and, in addition to the
`user` DSB role, the gateway will enrol itself as a `messagebroker`.

If a `DSB_CONTROL_TYPE` is also provided, the gateway may spawn a process
with the chosen method, in order to configure it (i.e. setting the same
private key).

**Default**: `false`

### `DSB_CONTROL_TYPE` [optional]

Used in conjunction with `DSB_CONTROLLABLE`, the `DSB_CONTROL_TYPE` defines
how the DSB Client Gateway controls the DSB Message Broker.

*Options*: `pm2`

By default this is unset.

### `DSB_PM2_PROCESS_NAME` [optional]

If `DSB_CONTROL_TYPE` is set to `pm2`, set the name of the DSB Message Broker
process which will be controlled by the gateway.

**Default**: `dsb-message-broker`

### `DSB_BIN_PATH` [optional]

Sets the path of the message broker to control if `DSB_CONTROL_TYPE` is set to
`pm2`. Can be relative (from the current working directory) or absolute. The
message broker must be built first for this to work.

**Default**: `../dsb-message-broker/bin/dsb-message-broker`

## Storage

The following variables define the storage mechanism for persisted data.
Note that as of writing, only JSON file is supported.

### `IN_MEMORY_DB_FILENAME` [optional]

Sets the filename of the JSON file the DSB Client Gateway will write to. The
file will be written to the current working directory (subject to change).

**Default**: `in-memory.json`

## Identity Access Management

These variables configure IAM on the Volta/Energy Web
Chain.

### `CHAIN_ID` [optional]

Sets the chain ID of the blockchain network.

*Options*: `73799` (Volta), `246` (EWC)

**Default**: `73799` (Volta)

### `RPC_URL` [optional]

Sets the blockchain RPC node to connect to retreive state from and submit
transactions to. Should match the network given in `CHAIN_ID`.

**Default**: `https://volta-rpc.energyweb.org/`

### `CACHE_SERVER_URL` [optional]

Sets the Energy Web IAM cache server URL, used to cache identities (as it
can be expensive to rely only on querying smart contract data).

**Default**: `https://identitycache-dev.energyweb.org/`

### `EVENT_SERVER_URL` [optional]

Sets the Energy Web IAM events server URL, used to receive notification of
approved DSB role claims.

**Default**: `https://identityevents-dev.energyweb.org/`

### `PARENT_NAMESPACE` [optional]

Sets the Energy Web IAM application namespace. DSB related roles, such as
`user` and `messagebroker` should fall under this namespace.

**Default**: `dsb.apps.energyweb.iam.ewc`

Commit message:

expand client/server documentation for websockets and remove outdated default text

CONFIGURATION.md, after:

# Configuration

The DSB Client Gateway is configured via environment variables.

## Server

The following variables control the setup of the gateway server.

### `PORT` [optional]

Define the port the gateway will run on.

**Default**: 3000

### `WEBSOCKET` [optional]

Select WebSocket mode depending on architecture (i.e. preference for inbound
or outbound connections).

Note that under the hood, the WebSocket implementation uses the same message
consumer as the GET /api/v1/message endpoint. Turning WebSocket support on is
therefore likely to render the REST endpoint (for pulling messages) useless
because outstanding messages will have already been pulled by the WebSocket
implementation. If you intend to use the REST endpoint to pull new messages
from the queue, please leave this value set to `NONE`.

If set to `SERVER`, the gateway will run a WebSocket server on /events which
accepts clients requesting the subprotocol `dsb-messages`. If the gateway has
been configured to use basic authentication, this should also be provided in
the request header when initialising the WebSocket connection.

If set to `CLIENT`, the gateway will act as a WebSocket client. Additional
environment variables are needed to configure the client to connect to the right
server. See the below documentation for `WEBSOCKET_URL` and
`WEBSOCKET_PROTOCOL`.

*Options: `SERVER`, `CLIENT`, `NONE`*

**Default**: `NONE`

### `WEBSOCKET_URL` [optional]

Sets the URL of the WebSocket server the client should try to connect to.

**Required if `WEBSOCKET` is set to `CLIENT`**

### `WEBSOCKET_PROTOCOL` [optional]

Sets the protocol the WebSocket client should request access to. Acceptable
protocols are defined by the WebSocket server, however, this can also be left
undefined.

Note that if `WEBSOCKET` is set to `SERVER` this variable is ignored. The
server will only accept connection requests on the `dsb-messages` protocol.

### `WEBSOCKET_RECONNECT` [optional]

Define whether the WebSocket client should reconnect on connection error/close.

**Default**: `true`

### `WEBSOCKET_RECONNECT_TIMEOUT` [optional]

Define the interval between receiving a connection error/close and attempting
to reconnect, in milliseconds.

**Default**: `10000` (10s)

### `WEBSOCKET_RECONNECT_MAX_RETRIES` [optional]

Define how many times the WebSocket client should attempt reconnection with the
server upon receving connection error/close.

**Default**: `10`

## Events

The following variables control how the DSB Client Gateway reacts to events,
for example, incoming messages on a channel. This is used in conjunction with
the WebSocket configuration to define how data is pushed to connections.

### `EVENTS_EMIT_MODE` [optional]

Defines the format for messages pushed over a real-time communication channel.

If bulk mode is chosen, messages will be sent as an array. At every 1 second
interval, the gateway will emit an array of the latest messages received.

If single mode is chosen, messages will be sent individually.

*Options*: `BULK`, `SINGLE`

**Default**: `BULK`

### `EVENTS_MAX_PER_SECOND` [optional]

Defines how many events should be pushed per second, regardless of mode chosen
(see above).

**Default**: `100`

## DSB Message Broker

The following variables control the connection with the DSB Message Broker,
which is a required dependency of the gateway.

### `DSB_BASE_URL` [optional]

The URL of the DSB Message Broker you want to connect to. Trailing `/` allowed.

Examples:
- `http://localhost:3000/`
- `http://1.1.1.1:5000`
- `https://broker.example.com/`

**Default**: `http://dsb-dev.energyweb.org`

### `DSB_CONTROLLABLE` [optional]

This allows the DSB Message Broker to be controlled by the DSB Client Gateway.
In this situation, the identities of both components are shared. This means
that a single private key is used for each component and, in addition to the
`user` DSB role, the gateway will enrol itself as a `messagebroker`.

If a `DSB_CONTROL_TYPE` is also provided, the gateway may spawn a process
with the chosen method, in order to configure it (i.e. setting the same
private key).

**Default**: `false`

### `DSB_CONTROL_TYPE` [optional]

Used in conjunction with `DSB_CONTROLLABLE`, the `DSB_CONTROL_TYPE` defines
how the DSB Client Gateway controls the DSB Message Broker.

*Options*: `pm2`

By default this is unset.

### `DSB_PM2_PROCESS_NAME` [optional]

If `DSB_CONTROL_TYPE` is set to `pm2`, set the name of the DSB Message Broker
process which will be controlled by the gateway.

**Default**: `dsb-message-broker`

### `DSB_BIN_PATH` [optional]

Sets the path of the message broker to control if `DSB_CONTROL_TYPE` is set to
`pm2`. Can be relative (from the current working directory) or absolute. The
message broker must be built first for this to work.

**Default**: `../dsb-message-broker/bin/dsb-message-broker`

## Storage

The following variables define the storage mechanism for persisted data.
Note that as of writing, only JSON file is supported.

### `IN_MEMORY_DB_FILENAME` [optional]

Sets the filename of the JSON file the DSB Client Gateway will write to. The
file will be written to the current working directory (subject to change).

**Default**: `in-memory.json`

## Identity Access Management

These variables configure IAM on the Volta/Energy Web
Chain.

### `CHAIN_ID` [optional]

Sets the chain ID of the blockchain network.

*Options*: `73799` (Volta), `246` (EWC)

**Default**: `73799` (Volta)

### `RPC_URL` [optional]

Sets the blockchain RPC node to connect to retreive state from and submit
transactions to. Should match the network given in `CHAIN_ID`.

**Default**: `https://volta-rpc.energyweb.org/`

### `CACHE_SERVER_URL` [optional]

Sets the Energy Web IAM cache server URL, used to cache identities (as it
can be expensive to rely only on querying smart contract data).

**Default**: `https://identitycache-dev.energyweb.org/`

### `EVENT_SERVER_URL` [optional]

Sets the Energy Web IAM events server URL, used to receive notification of
approved DSB role claims.

**Default**: `https://identityevents-dev.energyweb.org/`

### `PARENT_NAMESPACE` [optional]

Sets the Energy Web IAM application namespace. DSB related roles, such as
`user` and `messagebroker` should fall under this namespace.

**Default**: `dsb.apps.energyweb.iam.ewc`
